I don't feel any less ethical in doing
this but for me I feel it's evidence
that it's something within my nature and
therefore I have had to come to terms
with that I don't feel any less ethical
and doing this that was a part of the
identity crisis do I not care am I not
spiritual am i evil am i her unconscious
you know all these things come to your
mind this is some massive undoing
I don't feel any less ethical and doing
this and about to find peace in that and
I am praying and showing gratitude
feeling gratitude or say for every meal
I consume I don't feel any less ethical
and doing this
[Music]
but I don't see myself as caring less I
don't see myself as
[Music]
unethical but for me yeah as I said I
don't feel any less ethical in doing
this
speaking of ethics I guess that's the
segue as many of you may be aware I
founded a clothing company called ethics
antics several years ago which more
recently changed its name to ethics and
originally began as a vegan clothing
company targeted towards vegans with
vegan slogans and so I've taken the
decision to set down from my role in
ethics to step down from receiving any
future pay or salary from ethics I don't
feel any less ethical in doing this two
observations real quick and then I am
out Tim shieff was thrust into a
position of prominence and took on a
role as a leader in the vegan movement
for reasons that are random arbitrary
and meaningless and yet more meaningful
than most really if you think about it
Tim shieff became famous because he
appeared on television competing in a
peculiar sort of sporting event he then
took that moment in the spotlight and
capitalized on it
starting a vegan clothing company he
toured around the world appearing at
vegan conferences and events most
notably to my mind
la VegFest giving lectures and speeches
on you guessed it ethics and you know he
took on this prominent leadership role
the facts and factors that put him into
the spotlight and then let him
capitalize on that to become a leader
well let's just say they have nothing to
do with his level of innate intelligence
they have nothing to do with his work
experience or I don't know any books he
may have read don't doesn't have to do
with knowledge or acumen or insight or
ability doesn't have to do with any of
his you know political positions his
opinions his program of action his
planned for the future his promises for
what he would do if elected
it has nothing to do with the kind of
qualities that are normally under
consideration when picking out a leader
in any kind of social or political
movement and make no mistake ultimately
veganism is not just a diet it's a diet
that's attached to a political movement
pressing for social change so yeah as
with all the other people who ended up
in that position the last five years
it's kind of no surprise when it turns
out that he's terrible at it
that he's weakest precisely in his area
of professed greatest strength namely
ethics and that his position in the
movement soon folds compare this to
someone like Gary Yourofsky compared to
any of the other faces around the
boardroom table the different people who
have risen to prominence and soon enough
fallen in taking on similar leadership
roles as I say not even for similar
reasons most the time it's for reasons
even worse than this a few moments later
what is the future for any movement
that's organized in the way that we're
organized or to be more honest for any
movement that's disorganized in the way
that we're disorganized what if Oprah
Winfrey had become vegan would she now
be the overlord of veganism
I'm answered echoes it's hard to imagine
Oprah Winfrey doing a worse job than Tim
shieff one of the kind of candy and
cynical responses I used to get when I
would point out just how bad our leaders
were at veganism is people write back
and say oh well you're just trying to
say that you would be a better leader
and I would often write back saying no
no no I'm telling you that anyone would
be a better leader we really have a
problem with leadership so profound and
so awful that we need to look in the
mirror and ask how are we choosing these
people literally who is putting them on
who is giving them a platform in the
most literal sense who is putting them
on stage how is it we keep doing this to
ourselves again and again and again this
is not the exceptions to the rule it's
the rule it's not just Tim shieff it's
not just Gary Yourofsky it's everyone
quote unquote social-media influencer
Stella Raye was promoted by petaa People
for the Ethical Treatment of Animals
PETA had a vegan clothing video on their
YouTube channel approximately one week
before she went public in admitting that
she was not nail vegan and had not been
vegan for six months who put you on
Stella Raye how do you blame Stella Raye
she's an imbecile Stella Raye has no
redeeming qualities to recommend her to
being in a leadership position in the
vegan movement who put her on stage at
veg fest she was very literally given a
platform put on stage the same way Tim
shieff was who gave her a platform at
ped up people with ethics terminals at
all of these agencies and let me tell
you something I know better candidates
even just within the city of Los Angeles
don't tell me that's because Stella Raye
is good-looking
she's not that good-looking trust me I
mean come on throw a dart at the map you
can find a better-looking vegan woman in
Los Angeles if it's about looks
obviously it's not simply about looks
there's some other set of factors here
that are selecting these people even if
they're random even if they're arbitrary
they have nothing to do with
intelligence they have nothing to do
with ethics they have nothing to do with
the kinds of basic competence necessary
to play a leadership role in the vegan
movement and as I say we saw that play
out in dramatic fashion even with the
fall from grace of somebody like Gary
Yourofsky whom you know at least I guess
could speak in complete sentences unlike
people like Stella Raye and Tim shieff
here so look guys ultimately this stuff
doesn't matter because it's just a few
eccentrics the problem is that these are
the few eccentrics who are the best and
brightest and most prominent voices for
the future of the movement and no I
don't just mean on YouTube I mean in the
whole world
. period get off youtube if you really
think there's something better off
youtube go take a look at the
peer-reviewed academic literature on
veganism it's pathetic
go take a look at the academic
conferences on animal rights and
veganism go take a look at the people
doing campouts for you know animal
rights near you if you think YouTube is
shining a light on the worst aspects of
this movement you're wrong
YouTube like any other spotlight is
tending to highlight and draw the best
the most flattering aspects of the
movement once you get off YouTube once
you start dealing with the people who
are not comfortable coming on camera
coming on the microphone engaging in
debate and discussion about what their
views are and what they want for to a
movement if you think it gets brighter
in the darkness you're wrong surprise it
gets darker the spotlight for all the
disadvantages that may have at least
gives us a an opportunity to look in the
mirror and see our own flaws
[Music]